README.md, before:

# AI Fashion House

**AI Fashion House** is a project created for the [ADK Hackathon with Google Cloud](https://devpost.com/software/fashion-olu3gj). 
It's a modular, multi-agent system that transforms fashion design ideas into beautiful visuals. 
It automates the entire creative pipeline — from finding design inspirations to generating fashion images and then cinematic runway 
videos — by coordinating a set of specialized, intelligent agents. It's built with [ADK](https://google.github.io/adk-docs/) and various Google Cloud tech.

## How It Works

The system relies on a multi-agent framework, where each agent handles a specific step in the creative process. These agents operate asynchronously, enabling a flexible and dynamic design workflow:

1. **Input Analysis**
   Interprets user input to identify themes, fashion concepts, and stylistic cues.

2. **Visual Reference Retrieval**
   The `met_rag_agent` agent searches the Metropolitan Museum of Art's open-access archive (over 500,000 images) to retrieve relevant historical designn references.

   * **BigQuery RAG**: Performs semantic retrieval using Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) with BigQuery.
   * **GenAI Embeddings**: Embeds captions using the `text-embedding-005` model for similarity comparison (image search).
   * **Gemini Multimodal Analysis**: Processes both images and text to extract stylistic and structural fashion details.

3. **Internet Search Expansion**
   The `search_agent` agent uses Google Search Grounding to retrieve contemporary fashion references from the web.

4. **Style Prompt Generation**
   The `promp_writer_agent` & `fashion_design` agents organize visual data using a sequential pattern and combines it via an aggregator assistant to produce a detailed, fashion-specific prompt.

5. **Artifact Creation and Orchestration**
   The `marketing_agent` agent uses the style prompt to generate visual outputs:

   * **Imagen 3** is used to produce high-quality fashion images.
   * **Veo 3** generates stylized runway videos.
   * **Gemini** writes social media posts.

## Target Audience

* Fashion designers seeking design inspirations and showcase their designs visually
* Educators or students in fashion design education
* Archivists or curators seeking to combine design history with generative AI
* Creators and developers interested in visual storytelling and AI-powered prototyping

## Technology Stack

* Agent Development Kit [(ADK)](https://google.github.io/adk-docs/)
* Google Cloud (Vertex AI, BigQuery, Cloud Storage)
* Gemini API and GenAI text/image embedding models
* Imagen 3 and Veo 3 for advanced image and video synthesis
* A modular, multi-agent orchestration system

## Multi-Agent Architecture

![Multi-Agent Architecture](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/margaretmz/ai-fashion-house/main/images/agents-architecture.png)

Each step of the workflow is managed by a dedicated agent:

1. Input Analysis
2. Visual Reference Retrieval (`met_rag` agent)
   * BigQuery-based semantic search
   * Embedding generation and filtering
   * Multimodal image analysis
3. Web Search (`research_agent` agent)
4. Prompt Generation (`fashion_design` agent and aggregator)
5. Visual and Video Generation (`marketing_agent` agent using Imagen 3 and Veo 4)

## Installation

### Create and Activate A Virtual Environment with Python 11.0 or Higher

```bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
```

### Install Package

```bash
pip install ai-fashion-house
```

### Configure Environment Variables to run the application

Create a `.env` file in the root directory with the following content:

```env
GOOGLE_GENAI_USE_VERTEXAI=1
GOOGLE_API_KEY=<your_google_api_key>
GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT=<your_google_cloud_project_id>
GOOGLE_CLOUD_LOCATION=us-central1

# RAG settings
BIGQUERY_DATASET_ID=met_data
BIGQUERY_CONNECTION_ID=met_data_conn
BIGQUERY_REGION=US

# Embeddings and captioning models
BIGQUERY_EMBEDDINGS_MODEL_ID=embeddings_model
BIGQUERY_EMBEDDINGS_MODEL=text-embedding-005
BIGQUERY_CAPTIONING_MODEL_ID=gemini_model
BIGQUERY_CAPTIONING_MODEL=gemini-2.0-flash
BIGQUERY_TABLE_ID=fashion_ai_met
BIGQUERY_VECTOR_INDEX_ID=met_data_index

VEO2_MODEL_ID=veo-3.0-generate-preview
IMAGEN_MODEL_ID=imagen-4.0-generate-preview-06-06

MEDIA_FILES_BUCKET_GCS_URI=gs://myfiles2025
```

### Set Up MET RAG(Retrieval-Augmented Generation)

To simplify the installation process, you can use the setup-rag command to automatically configure the MET RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) environment on GCP BigQuery. This command sets up the required dataset, connection, and vector index for the MET RAG agent.
In case the automated setup fails or you prefer manual deployment, we’ve also included the necessary BigQuery SQL scripts in the scripts/ folder.

```bash
ai-fashion-house setup-rag
```

### Run the Application

```bash
ai-fashion-house start
```

Open your browser and navigate to:

```
http://localhost:8080
```

to access the AI Fashion House interface.

![Fashion House interface](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/margaretmz/ai-fashion-house/main/images/Screenshot1.png)

![Fashion House interface 2](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/margaretmz/ai-fashion-house/main/images/Screenshot2.png)

### 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome and appreciated! To contribute:

1. **Fork** this repository.
2. **Create a new branch** for your feature or fix.
3. **Commit** your changes with clear messages.
4. **Push** to your forked repository.
5. **Open a Pull Request (PR)** to the `main` branch with a description of your changes and any relevant context.

---

### 🛠️ Running the Project Locally

#### 1. Start the Backend

Run the backend server from the root directory:

```bash
ai-fashion-house start --reload
```

> 💡 Use the `--reload` flag to enable hot-reloading during development.

#### 2. Start the React Frontend

Open a new terminal, navigate to the `ui` directory, and run:

```bash
cd ui
npm install
npm run dev
```
Then open your browser and navigate to:
```
http://localhost:5173
```

#### 3. Build for Production

To generate the production build of the frontend:

```bash
npm run build
```

> ⚛️ The UI is a [React.js](https://reactjs.org/) app using Vite.

Commit message:

Update README: add installation prerequisites & other details

README.md, after:

# AI Fashion House

**AI Fashion House** is a project created for the [ADK Hackathon with Google Cloud](https://devpost.com/software/fashion-olu3gj). 
It's a modular, multi-agent system that transforms fashion design ideas into beautiful visuals. 
It automates the entire creative pipeline — from finding design inspirations to generating fashion images and then cinematic runway 
videos — by coordinating a set of specialized, intelligent agents. It's built with [ADK](https://google.github.io/adk-docs/) and various Google Cloud tech.

## How It Works

The system relies on a multi-agent framework, where each agent handles a specific step in the creative process. These agents operate asynchronously, enabling a flexible and dynamic design workflow:

1. **Input Analysis**
   Interprets user input to identify themes, fashion concepts, and stylistic cues.

2. **Visual Reference Retrieval**
   The `met_rag_agent` agent searches the Metropolitan Museum of Art's open-access archive (over 500,000 images) to retrieve relevant historical designn references.

   * **BigQuery RAG**: Performs semantic retrieval using Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) with BigQuery.
   * **GenAI Embeddings**: Embeds captions using the `text-embedding-005` model for similarity comparison (image search).
   * **Gemini Multimodal Analysis**: Processes both images and text to extract stylistic and structural fashion details.

3. **Internet Search Expansion**
   The `search_agent` agent uses Google Search Grounding to retrieve contemporary fashion references from the web.

4. **Style Prompt Generation**
   The `promp_writer_agent` & `fashion_design` agents organize visual data using a sequential pattern and combines it via an aggregator assistant to produce a detailed, fashion-specific prompt.

5. **Artifact Creation and Orchestration**
   The `marketing_agent` agent uses the style prompt to generate visual outputs:

   * **Imagen 3** is used to produce high-quality fashion images.
   * **Veo 3** generates stylized runway videos.
   * **Gemini** writes social media posts.

## Target Audience

* Fashion designers seeking design inspirations and showcase their designs visually
* Educators or students in fashion design education
* Archivists or curators seeking to combine design history with generative AI
* Creators and developers interested in visual storytelling and AI-powered prototyping

## Technology Stack

* Agent Development Kit [(ADK)](https://google.github.io/adk-docs/)
* Google Cloud (Vertex AI, BigQuery, Cloud Storage)
* Gemini API and GenAI text/image embedding models
* Imagen 3 and Veo 3 for advanced image and video synthesis
* A modular, multi-agent orchestration system

## Multi-Agent Architecture

![Multi-Agent Architecture](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/margaretmz/ai-fashion-house/main/images/agents-architecture.png)

Each step of the workflow is managed by a dedicated agent:

1. Input Analysis
2. Visual Reference Retrieval (`met_rag` agent)
   * BigQuery-based semantic search
   * Embedding generation and filtering
   * Multimodal image analysis
3. Web Search (`research_agent` agent)
4. Prompt Generation (`fashion_design` agent and aggregator)
5. Visual and Video Generation (`marketing_agent` agent using Imagen 3 and Veo 4)

## Installation
### Prerequisites:

1. Google Cloud SDK [(gcloud CLI)](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install) installed for authentication.
   
   - Terminal command: `gcloud init` and choose the project ID.
   - Set a default login: `gcloud auth application-default login`.

3. Access to Google Cloud: BigQuery, Gemini, Imagen 4, Veo 3 (public preview).

### Virtual Environment with Python 11.0 or Higher

```bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
```

### Install Package

```bash
pip install ai-fashion-house
```

### Configure Environment Variables to run the application

Create a `.env` file in the root directory with the following content:

```env
GOOGLE_GENAI_USE_VERTEXAI=1
GOOGLE_API_KEY=<your_google_api_key>
GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT=<your_google_cloud_project_id>
GOOGLE_CLOUD_LOCATION=us-central1

# RAG settings
BIGQUERY_DATASET_ID=met_data
BIGQUERY_CONNECTION_ID=met_data_conn
BIGQUERY_REGION=US

# Embeddings and captioning models
BIGQUERY_EMBEDDINGS_MODEL_ID=embeddings_model
BIGQUERY_EMBEDDINGS_MODEL=text-embedding-005
BIGQUERY_CAPTIONING_MODEL_ID=gemini_model
BIGQUERY_CAPTIONING_MODEL=gemini-2.0-flash
BIGQUERY_TABLE_ID=fashion_ai_met
BIGQUERY_VECTOR_INDEX_ID=met_data_index

VEO2_MODEL_ID=veo-3.0-generate-preview
IMAGEN_MODEL_ID=imagen-4.0-generate-preview-06-06

MEDIA_FILES_BUCKET_GCS_URI=<gs://your-bucket-name>
```
Note: you will need to update `.env` with your own:
* Google API key (get it from [Google AI Studio](https://aistudio.google.com/app/apikey))
* Google Cloud project id
* Google Cloud bucket for storing generated images and videos

### Set Up MET RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation)

To simplify the installation process, you can use the `setup-rag` command to automatically configure the MET RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) environment on GCP BigQuery. 
This command sets up the required dataset, connection, and vector index for the `met_rag_agent`.
In case the automated setup fails or you prefer manual deployment, we’ve also included the necessary BigQuery SQL scripts in the `scripts/` folder.

```bash
ai-fashion-house setup-rag
```

### Run the Application

```bash
ai-fashion-house start
```

Open your browser and navigate to:

```
http://localhost:8080
```

to access the AI Fashion House web UI interface.

![Fashion House interface](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/margaretmz/ai-fashion-house/main/images/Screenshot1.png)

![Fashion House interface 2](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/margaretmz/ai-fashion-house/main/images/Screenshot2.png)

### 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome and appreciated! To contribute:

1. **Fork** this repository.
2. **Create a new branch** for your feature or fix.
3. **Commit** your changes with clear messages.
4. **Push** to your forked repository.
5. **Open a Pull Request (PR)** to the `main` branch with a description of your changes and any relevant context.

---

### 🛠️ Running the Project Locally

#### 1. Start the Backend

Run the backend server from the root directory:

```bash
ai-fashion-house start --reload
```

> 💡 Use the `--reload` flag to enable hot-reloading during development.

#### 2. Start the React Frontend

Open a new terminal, navigate to the `ui` directory, and run:

```bash
cd ui
npm install
npm run dev
```
Then open your browser and navigate to:
```
http://localhost:5173
```

#### 3. Build for Production

To generate the production build of the frontend:

```bash
npm run build
```

> ⚛️ The UI is a [React.js](https://reactjs.org/) app using Vite.
